hey guys what's happening Brendon
hovered here welcome back to another
friends Friday today on the show we have
Tim solo head of marketing at 8 reps tim
has this amazing backstory we get into
it a tiny bit we talked about manifestos
beginner SEO mistakes advanced SEO
mistakes and really just drill down on
SEO for SAS companies if you have a
software-as-a-service product this is a
must watch friends friday episode Tim
thanks so much for joining us for a
hundred days of SEO thanks so much for
inviting me yeah man so I want to jump
just right in something I wanted to talk
to you about is something I read on
blogger jet don't write about marketing
strategies you have heard from someone
only write about things that you have
personally tried and that really stands
out to me how much is that reflected in
how you think about SEO
that's a good question like I think the
the actual question is the answer
because like I like this is the right
thing to do I don't even know like what
what's the value of reading what someone
else has done and writing about it and I
don't feel that when I joined the stress
and took over the block I don't feel I
didn't feel that I was in a position
where I would be the best person to kind
of create information and present it in
a way to make people care about it so I
figured it would kind of be easier for
me to just try everything and write
about my own experience because as soon
as you try something and write about
your personal experience your article
immediately becomes unique tell me how
do you decide you know SEO can be
confusing for some people because
there's two hundred ranking factors and
there's does it because we don't really
know like we have some idea what gets
you rankings right we know you've done
some really good work at href surround
the correlation between links and other
parts of like on-page SEO with regard to
ranking really well but really like we
don't have the playbook right we
probably shouldn't because we'd probably
abuse it we already do right
some some people do but so how do you
decide like when you think about SEO
like how do you decide what to
prioritize or like where to start
I'm like my title if addressed is not
SEO I'm kind of director of marketing or
CMO so SEO is not even like what I do
kind of day to day but if you look at
the search traffic to hsn.com or it
shares the concerns blog you might see
like some almost hockey stick growth yes
yeah I kind of can say that I know a
thing or two about SEO for sauce
companies or like product first
businesses my approach to a CEO is I'd
say not very technical because I believe
at our level so a level of each chefs
most SEM rush and whoever else are our
competitors we kind of want to outrank
each other it's not just about like how
many times you put your keyword in title
or if you optimize your pages to be
super fast or if you have eight hreflang
or if you have an P I don't even think
we we use schema but still we get tons
of traffic and our search traffic is
growing so you can say that our SEO is
doing well so I feel that at our level
too many factors are in place for
example branding like whenever we
publish an article and you want to rank
for it it's also the power of brand
because some like there are tons of
ourselves with their personal blogs and
anyone can publish an article about link
building but when people decide what
article about link building they want to
link to they would think of brands they
will think of authorities if you pick
between Rand Fishkin which is a personal
brand and they'd chefs as a company
brand people would rather link to eight
chefs because they trust as a company
has more authority than read Fishkin as
a person for us SEO is not not really
dependent on any specific factors it's
broader than that you think about
audiences we think about brands you
think about our authority we think about
our reach how many people we can reach I
feel that almost everything our company
is doing I
is SEO because almost everything can be
turned into a link a reference or almost
anything can be checked for search
traffic potential and we could
potentially rank in Google for that
thing and milk search traffic and turn
it into our caste there's some people
who are like analytics hounds and they
want to know the data and the conversion
rates and all of this tiny we need to
reduce the bounce rate like you don't do
any of that yes and no but mostly no so
for example yeah yeah for example like
you said we don't try to collect
people's emails on our blog simply
because I don't need to use any pop-ups
because think about it our blog is fully
SEO driven so we want to rank for
anything related to SEO which our
product can solve because then if you
google if you search in Google for
anything any problem that you have will
with SL and you land on our article
you're basically about to read a sales
page for our product because we are
going to educate you on how to solve
your SEO issue with our product and
we're going to show our product in all
its glory and we're going to persuade
you why your product is the best
solution so why would I want to
interrupt your experience of reading our
sales page that is perfectly tailored to
whatever you were searching for with a
pop-up get your email send you some
follow-up emails blah blah blah you're
already here you you're already having
some SEO question it's a problem and
we're about to show you how to use our
tool to the people who say that what if
like he reads an article and he doesn't
sign up for a trial that person like is
lost for you yeah I can accept that the
person is lost I can live with it but
the next time that person will search
for other thing related to it so and the
next thing they will land on our article
again from Google and they will see that
a chef's is good for solving that other
issue that we have they will sign up ok
if they won't set up from the second
attempt probably in a month from now
they will Google for something else and
they will still end for our article so
our job is not to like convert people
into our list and quote-unquote nurture
them spam them like persuade them we'll
just wait we'll put out a lot
of content that educates people how to
solve their issues with SEO and will
wait for people to have these problems
we'll wait for people to discover us in
Google and we'll wait for people to sign
up organically without us having to kind
of proactively persuade them
I don't need analytics to know that it
works and even if even if you will
install Google Analytics and you'll see
that the conversion rate from a blog is
low which I'm pretty sure it will be the
case because like I said the conversion
from a blog is not as straightforward
people are super unlikely to sign up
from their first visit or insurance
block they might go to forums hear about
insurance they might go to conference as
they say there are a lot of touch points
with your customer before with your
potential customer before they become a
customer and it is almost impossible to
track in Google Analytics alone because
for example you can go to a bar with
your friends tomorrow and someone will
mention a tool and you visited the tool
before you visit their blog so you know
it already but that conversation with
the friends is what made you say now and
this is something you won't see in
Google Analytics so yeah first of all I
don't believe that the funnel is super
straightforward to be tracked in Google
Analytics so I don't care about the
numbers the second thing if the
conversion rate is 7% or 15% like it
doesn't change my marketing strategy if
it is 1% I will still do this because
this is educational content and even if
that content doesn't work on converting
people into lead signups or whatever it
still works like like a charm into for
educating our current customer base
which which improves our churn rate so
people stay longer with us and if people
are educated they can talk to other
people so no tracking of how our blog
performs will change our strategy with
the blog because we feel that our
strategy is is the right one from so
many angles a couple things that you
mentioned that I want to kind of know um
you mentioned brand
I think brand is huge for SEO I think
that when people if I search for
something and I see three or four search
results and I notice that like number
three is a brand that I've heard of that
I know like and trust I'm probably gonna
click on the third one it doesn't you
know like I know that we all know that
the first one gets the most clicks and
whatever else and I
understand that's true but a really
quickly way to rise in the search
rankings is simply to have a known brand
this is especially true on YouTube if I
try to if I want to learn I was just
telling Sam that I wanted to learn more
about a resource page link building so I
was you know we just started using pitch
box so I was looking some stuff up and
just trying to get some really good I
don't something like very tactical and I
did a search and I think ATF's video was
like third or second or something and
I'm just gonna click that because I know
I can trust it in there in YouTube
because they own the whole platform is
super democratic like the the clicks are
the easiest way to gain rankings so I
think brand is really important I love
what you said and this is especially
important for SAS companies tying your
content to business decision I don't
need analytics if I know that my content
is tied directly to new business and I'm
not gonna just like if you have a demo
scheduled you're not gonna interrupt the
middle of a demo with like hey did you
want this PDF time when the demo free
did your cut if you treated every piece
of content as a demo of your product and
you didn't write about anything else
like you've only write it wrote righted
wrote about things or you could
demonstrate your products like you'd be
you'd be much better off right it is an
amazing analogy I'm going to steal it
from you and use it from the one nice
like nice yeah read it one time and then
you could see I want to talk to you
really quickly kind of just two
questions that are kind of side by side
what are some of the more beginner
mistakes you see with blogging and SEO
yeah let's let's focus on SAS companies
so that affiliate a SEOs and like before
for talking that doesn't work the
mistakes that I see most businesses not
even SAS companies but most businesses
who want to get customers online who
want to do online marketing and for that
reason launch blogs the biggest mistakes
I see are actually the most the most
clear one the most obvious ones so first
they they don't write are
skills about the things that people are
searching for then you have like those
examples like five examples of creative
business cards or like here love
pictures of our company retreat or like
opinion piece why do we think that
pop-up forms do or don't work so no one
searches for the that stuff I do some
proper keyword research and find the
topics around your business the people
are searching for once you start doing
that immediately your chances of getting
search traffic go from almost zero
because they're not targeting any things
that people are searching for so - like
whatever and the second issue is that
even when people start targeting things
that people in their industry are
looking for they don't showcase their
product in the articles for whatever
reason or either they don't understand
that like the purpose of like your
content your blog is to drive people to
your business maybe they have the KPI of
traffic not leads or sales and this is
why they're going for traffic and the
final issue is that you will don't build
links is easy to understand how to do
keyword research how to find topics that
people search for and how to write
articles and include your product there
there's like absolutely zero rocket
science in this and basically link
building is about making those people
link to you for whatever reason so you
have to use all other methods persuasion
methods which basically stem from how
good is your content is it linkable is
it the research that someone would want
to link to and the second thing you need
to think about is how do people in your
niche who have websites because people
without websites cannot link to you how
do people with websites learn about your
content so as soon as you solve those
two things like why what's the reason
for people to link to your pages and
second how would those people know about
you you kind of have some some link
building strategy yeah and I think that
kind of brings us full circle right
creating content that people want to
link to like nobody wants your article
on on page
SEO that is the same as every like 10
tips for on-page SEO
pass pass same as everything else but if
you have an article about like how you
made an extra two million dollars this
year with only changing your on-page SEO
I'm interested yes I wanna know right
yes and you see that that comes again
from personal experience yep yeah
absolutely so if you want to create
content that people are going to link to
that makes it a slam-dunk when you
whether you're doing cold outreach or
pitching it or just sharing it with
people that have websites that could
possibly link to it whatever there's a
million ways to just share it whether
that be on or our reddit or Twitter
social whatever yeah people you want
that like oh wow like oh that's that's
amazing
you'll see that traffic and that's how
you kind of earn those links but it
really does have to be something you've
done or I
I would kind of say and something you
have a stance on you know putting your
flag in the ground and saying like
they're just like having some something
to say it's far too many people even
things where I see like hey this is
really cool research for instance you
get you know I just read Josh's article
about anchor text it's really
interesting and it's it's not just hey
that's cool data it's hey that's cool
data and here's our take on it here's
why it matters and all of a sudden when
you have a voice and a brand that
matters to and I know this is silly
because people especially SAS companies
wouldn't think that SEO has a ton to do
with brand but I think it does when I
look at companies I have a friend who's
in the self publishing space and there's
grammarly and there's another one called
pro writing aid pro writing aid superior
product still does really well in search
grammerly huge brand absolutely huge so
affiliate marketers are more likely to
put links to grammarly because it'll
convert better like there's a million
things what brand does absolutely matter
for SEO right which is why I think it's
really cool what you've done obviously
supporting hundred days of SEO and doing
podcast sponsorships and a bunch of
other things around that as well right
kind of wrapping things up the two
things I want to talk about number one
is there anything you see like
sort of like really high-level or like
advanced SEO mistakes that you see
people making a lot maybe somebody who's
been in the game for a while but it's
like hey you're still missing this I
want to talk about the tool in href that
I'm recently finding is the coolest part
of a tres but the part that I've just
got to be honest with you and you saw
this at traffic think-tank in
Philadelphia that the it's the part that
people use the least which is content
Explorer and I listened and I'm starting
to use it more and more and I know
you're doing some really cool stuff with
it tell me like what do you think what
do you think is like the best way to use
the content Explorer and a tracer what
have you found to you know get the most
leverage out of it one word prospecting
so like we just discussed there are two
issues that you need to solve as as an
SEO person or let's say as a person
responsible for bringing traffic from
Google there is create something
something valuable that you want to rank
in Google and that deserves to be linked
to and second find people with websites
who might potentially link to it so
content Explorer is the perfect tool I
don't think that there are any any
alternatives right now but content
Explorer is perfect for finding people
who are cooking potentially linked to
you because think about it if you have
if you have created a Productivity app
and for example if you created a
resource about let's say something easy
like best productivity books now with
with some unique twist what you can do
is in keyword Explorer is find all
articles from all around the web that
have mentioned productivity in the
titles so basically and then you can
click a setting called one article per
domain so that your list of articles
will transform into a list of articles
that come from unique domains so in just
like I think less than 20 seconds you
can get a list of almost all bloggers in
your space or all websites that have
blogs and the publish content about
productivity so from there all you need
to do is like start reaching out to that
to them building relationship
showing your content figuring out ways
you can partner together figuring out
ways you can do marketing together etc
and I loved what you said here because
you the first words out of your mouth
work build a relationship right like I'm
a firm believer that in the past I see a
lot of the common thread of SEO was you
get one link from one website and after
that there's like a diminishing results
the more links you get from the same
website but I have a very strong feeling
that Google is moving towards
understanding how humans work and
understanding that if I link from my
website to HR F's today in a month I
have a reason to link to them again and
I link to them again and again these are
diminishing results these are almost in
the problems you can manipulate this but
it almost should have a lee compound
interest result where do they get more
powerful the more I'm linking to over
time because it's showing Oh Brendan has
been linking 2hrs for three and a half
years
they're both authoritative websites this
must be a valuable relationship between
the two of them Tim I really appreciate
you taking the time this has been
awesome thanks for coming on 100 days of
SEO sure thanks a lot for inviting
[Music]